# The Equation of a Plane

I wasn't a great undergraduate student, but I had at least one great
professor. She connected me with the first step of my post-graduate
career path, and she taught some of my calculus classes. One day she
turned briefly from the chalkboard and said with a smile:

> "If you don't know equation of a plane, I kill you!"

I thought it was funny, and it wasn't what we were really working on
in class, so I didn't think much more about it. But because I never
thought it through then, doubt remained for some fifteen years: Was my
life in danger?

That teacher wasn't even an associate professor back then, by official
title. Recently, I learned that she's become an associate dean of the
college. I was inspired to finally think about the equation of a
plane.

Maybe she just meant that the equation of a plane is linear in
Cartesian coordinates. That could have been it. But I think she was
also getting at something about using the axis intercepts.

I learned \\( y=mx+b \\) like a kind of incantation, and I don't think
it was only because I went to Catholic schools. The "standard form" is
[treated](http://jwilson.coe.uga.edu/emt668/emat6680.2002/jackson/chapter%205%20lesson%20plan/day6.html)
like a purposeless afterthought, more about following rules than
understanding anything.

But if the \\( x \\)-intercept is \\( a \\) and the \\( y
\\)-intercept is \\( b \\), then \\( bx + ay = ab \\) is a very nice
equation of a line. Maybe call it both-intercepts form.

Adding a \\( z \\)-intercept of \\( c \\), a plane then has a similar
equation: \\( bcx + acy + abz = abc \\).

I don't know for sure whether that's the equation that should have
spared my life back then, but it's a charming one. It's fun to think
about how it's related to other forms, and other dimensionsâ€”and how
silly a rule like "\\( A \\), \\( B \\), and \\( C \\) must be
integers" is.

I wish I had been a better student back then. I had no idea how useful
multivariate calculus and linear algebra would turn out to be, in
particular. But I've been very lucky, and I'm honored to have had
teachers who give me the pleasure of thinking things through, even
little things like this, and even many years later than I should have.
And I am deeply pleased to see that people who were so helpful to me
have themselves found greater success, and positions from which to
help many more people.
