# Predicting the Future from 2020

What's going to happen in the future? I will tell you. The future will
be basically like now, but some things will be slightly better, and
some things will be slightly worse.


### By 2021

 * Joe Biden becomes Democratic candidate for US presidency.
 * Democratic candidate wins US presidency.
 * At least one hurricane leads to visit by US president.
 * Foreign powers seek to influence US citizens via the internet, but
   this is hard to verify.
 * None of [FAANG][] are split up by government intervention.
 * S&P 500 closes below 3,000.

[FAANG]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Facebook,_Apple,_Amazon,_Netflix_and_Google


### By 2025

 * Ruth Bader Ginsberg is dead.
 * At least one merger of streaming TV offerings.
 * Chinese Communist Party represented in Hong Kong government.
 * The "transformer" family of neural network architectures is
   generalized for arbitrary inputs (not just sequences) and continues
   to be interesting.
 * There is no car that I can buy and have drive itself curb-to-curb
   across town.
 * S&P 500 closes above 3,500.


### By 2030

 * Donald Trump is dead.
 * Russia is bigger (by territory).
 * There is at least one new US law with ID requirements for posting
   online.
 * US minimum wage at least 15 USD/hour.
 * AI development has a clearer split between research and
   application: The forefronts of research are not immediately
   applicable to industry.
 * S&P 500 closes above 4,000.


### By 2040

 * At least one of DC and Puerto Rico have at least one full voting US
   senator.
 * Inflation found to be related to minimum wage: raising minimum wage
   does not increase purchasing power of minimum-wage workers.
 * The majority of new cars sold are electric.
 * Product delivery to homes (like Amazon) as a utility, like
   electricity.
 * US government-subsidized program to encourage people to move to
   inland cities.
 * S&P 500 closes above 8,000.


General trends: Climate continues to change. Unemployment gets worse
not because companies don't want to hire but because they can't find
employees with positive marginal value. Rich continue to get richer
while the poor are largely left behind. Some governments sell the poor
totalitarianism as populism while others move toward socialism.
Warfare is as targeted as possible; assassinations become more common.
International psyops are generally opposed to wealth redistribution.

---

In thinking about these predictions, it's striking how much more
significant my personal choices generally are (for me) than things
that happen in the world. I'm very fortunate that even the biggest
things in the news don't affect me very much. I've never been forced
to migrate anywhere, for example, and I don't expect to be.

Most big changes in my life are independent of the news. Ten years ago
I lived in Korea, five years ago I lived in New York, now I live in
DC. For most of the last ten years I was a childless single renter,
and now I'm a married homeowner with a daughter.

Most technology doesn't change terribly much. Ten years ago, I had an
iPhone, I searched on Google, I translated things with Google
Translate, and I programmed with Python. I drive a hybrid gas/electric
car that's over ten years old. All these technologies are better today
than they used to be, but they aren't fundamentally new.

One technology that has seen dramatic change over the last ten years
is deep learning. It's been really neat to be a small part of that. I
wonder what technology might be the equivalent in the next decade. I
suspect it isn't going to be any of the buzz words (VR, AR, crypto,
etc.). Maybe something biological?

---

I'm curious to hear predictions from others, and I look forward to
reflecting on all these predictions in the future!
